.TH ALR-PIN 1 "Aug 3, 2022" "Alire 1.2" "Alire manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
alr-pin \- Pin dependencies to exact versions
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fIalr pin\fP [options] [[crate[=<version>]] | crate \-\-use=<path> [\-\-commit=REF] [\-\-branch=NAME] | \-\-all]
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
--all
Pin the complete solution
.TP 5
--unpin
Unpin a release
.TP 5
--branch=\fINAME\fP
Branch to be tracked in repository
.TP 5
--commit=\fIREF\fP
Reference to be retrieved from repository
.TP 5
--use=\fIPATH|URL\fP
Use a directory or repository to fulfill a dependency
.\"
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP 5
-c, --config=\fIARG\fP
Override configuration folder location
.TP 5
-f, --force
Keep going after a recoverable troublesome situation
.TP 5
-h, --help
Display general or command-specific help
.TP 5
-n, --non-interactive
Assume default answers for all user prompts
.TP 5
--no-color
Disables colors in output
.TP 5
--no-tty
Disables control characters in output
.TP 5
--prefer-oldest
Prefer oldest versions instead of newest when resolving dependencies
.TP 5
--version
Displays version and exits
.TP 5
-q
Limit output to errors
.TP 5
-v
Be more verbose (use twice for extra detail)
.TP 5
-d, --debug[]
Enable debug-specific log messages
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pin releases to a particular version. By default, the current solution
version is used. A pinned release is not affected by automatic updates.
.PP
Without arguments, show existing pins.
Use \fI--all\fP to pin the whole current solution.
Specify a single crate to modify its pin.
Use the \fI--use\fP <PATH|URL> switch to use the target to fulfill a dependency
locally instead of looking for indexed releases. An optional reference can be
specified with \fI--commit\fP; the pin will be frozen at the commit currently
matching the reference.  Alternatively, a branch to track can be specified
with \fI--branch\fP. Use `alr update` to refresh the tracking pin contents.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIalr(1)\fR, \fIalr-get(1)\fR, \fIalr-index(1)\fR, \fIalr-init(1)\fR, \fIalr-search(1)\fR, \fIalr-show(1)\fR, \fIalr-update(1)\fR, \fIalr-with(1)\fR, \fIgprbuild(1)\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Generated with generate-man from Alire execution
