.TH ALR-SEARCH 1 "Aug 3, 2022" "Alire 1.2" "Alire manual"
.nh
.ad l
.SH NAME
alr-search \- Search a string in release names and properties
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fIalr search\fP [options] <search term> | [\-\-crates] [\-\-full] \-\-list
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
--crates
Restrict search and output to crate names and descriptions
.TP 5
--external-detect
Detect externally-provided releases (implies --external)
.TP 5
--full
Show all versions of a crate (newest only otherwise)
.TP 5
--list
List all available releases
.TP 5
--external
Include externally-provided releases in search
.TP 5
--property=\fITEXT\fP
Search TEXT in property values
.\"
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP 5
-c, --config=\fIARG\fP
Override configuration folder location
.TP 5
-f, --force
Keep going after a recoverable troublesome situation
.TP 5
-h, --help
Display general or command-specific help
.TP 5
-n, --non-interactive
Assume default answers for all user prompts
.TP 5
--no-color
Disables colors in output
.TP 5
--no-tty
Disables control characters in output
.TP 5
--prefer-oldest
Prefer oldest versions instead of newest when resolving dependencies
.TP 5
--version
Displays version and exits
.TP 5
-q
Limit output to errors
.TP 5
-v
Be more verbose (use twice for extra detail)
.TP 5
-d, --debug[]
Enable debug-specific log messages
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Searches the given substring in crate names (or properties with \fI--property\fP),
and shows the most recent release of matching crates (unless \fI--full\fP is
specified).
.PP
Use \fI--crates\fP to get a simple list of only crate names and  descriptions.
Otherwise, besides version, description and release notes, a status column
with the following status flags is provided:
.PP
E: the release is externally provided.
.br
S: the release is available through a system package.
.br
U: the release is not available in the current platform.
.br
X: the release has dependencies that cannot be resolved.
.PP
The reasons for unavailability (U) can be ascertained with 'alr show
<crate>=<version>'.
Unresolvable releases (X) should not happen in platforms with assigned
maintainers. Common reasons are missing system dependencies that have been
phased out by the platform without being updated yet in the community index.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIalr(1)\fR, \fIalr-get(1)\fR, \fIalr-index(1)\fR, \fIalr-init(1)\fR, \fIalr-pin(1)\fR, \fIalr-show(1)\fR, \fIalr-update(1)\fR, \fIalr-with(1)\fR, \fIgprbuild(1)\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Generated with generate-man from Alire execution
